Add documentation about Kotlin constants (#2644)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/android/codestyle.md

```bash
// TODO Missing feature (linked issue #404)
```

## Constants

### Naming conventions

We follow the [Kotlin property naming guidelines](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/coding-conventions.html#property-names).

### Avoid magic numbers and strings

Magic numbers or strings in code can make it difficult to understand the purpose of a value, leading to poor maintainability. Always replace magic numbers or strings with named constants.

#### ❌ Don't do this

```kotlin
if (value == 42) {
  // Do something
}
```

> In this example, it’s unclear why the value 42 is being used. At the very least, you should add a comment explaining its purpose. Even better for future evolutions, it should be defined as a constant.

Reviewer: "future evolutions"? Do you mean future changes?

From the target audience's perspective, a question that comes up is: why is a constant better?

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, it’s unclear why the value 42 is being used. At the very least, you should add a comment explaining its purpose. Defining it as a constant is even better because it provides a clear, descriptive name, making the code easier to read, understand, and maintain. Additionally, defining the value in one place facilitates reuse across the codebase, such as in tests or within functions, classes, or other modules. This approach simplifies future changes, as updating the constant in one location automatically propagates the change wherever it is used. It also allows you to easily find where the constant is used with the IDE, avoiding irrelevant search results like searching for "42" across the entire codebase.
```

Better?

#### ✅ Do this

```kotlin
// Explanation or link about why we picked 42
const val SUPER_IMPORTANT_THRESHOLD = 42

if (value == SUPER_IMPORTANT_THRESHOLD) {
    // Do something
}
```

### Organizing constants

General rule is if the constant is exposed outside of the file it needs to be properly be identifiable when imported either by its name or by its parents name.

#### Within a dedicated file

If you need to group related constants together, create an `object` to namespace them. Place the constants in a file suffixed with `*Constants.kt`. This approach improves organization and avoids cluttering unrelated files.

**Example:**

```kotlin
// filepath: NetworkConstants.kt
package package io.homeassistant.companion.android.network

object NetworkConstants {

>     val TIMEOUT = 30.seconds

Reviewer 2: if its a constant, why isnt it a const?

Author: Because in Kotlin only primitives types and strings can be mark as `const`. Here it's a `Duration` object and unfortunately it's not possible to mark it as a `const` We had the same discussion https://github.com/home-assistant/android/pull/5197#discussion_r2034645206.

    const val BASE_URL = "https://api.example.com"
}
```

> OR

Reviewer: When do you choose this or the previous example? Not explained here why there is a choice.

Author: To be honest I don't have a strong rule here. So if I you have any takes please share it with us :)

The choice between the two approaches depends on the context and intended usage of the constant:

**Using an object**: This approach creates a namespace, making it clear where the constant comes from. It is particularly useful when the constant is logically grouped with other related constants or when it is specific to a particular domain or feature. For example:

```kotlin
if (value == MyObject.SUPER_VALUE)
```

(Note: You can avoid the MyObject. prefix with the proper import.)

**Defining the constant outside an object**: This is suitable for constants that are used globally across the application and are not tied to a specific domain or feature. In this case, the constant can be accessed directly:

```kotlin
if (value == SUPER_VALUE)
```

In the end, the choice affects how the constant is used and referenced in the code. Both approaches are valid, but the decision should prioritize clarity and maintainability IMO.

Author: The more I look at it the more I think the later a public constant without an object might be very rare. But private one could make sense (the example bellow is not the best nor accurate).

```kotlin
private const val MOBILE_BASE_URL = "https://mobile-apps.home-assistant.io"

object APIConstants {
    const val BASE_URL = "$MOBILE_BASE_URL/api"
}

object WSConstants {
    const val BASE_URL = "$MOBILE_BASE_URL/ws"
}
```

Reviewer: If it is very rare, maybe skip the example so there is no room for confusion? In the rare instance that it is preferred, we can guide them using a review comment.

```

#### Alongside a class

For constants that are tightly coupled to a specific class, you can define them within the same file. Avoid using companion object unless absolutely necessary. Instead, place private constants outside the class definition at the top level. This reduces boilerplate and keeps the class focused.

**Example:**

```kotlin
// filepath: UserRepository.kt
package package io.homeassistant.companion.android.user

private const val DEFAULT_USER_ID = "guest"

class UserRepository {
    fun getUserById(userId: String = DEFAULT_USER_ID): User {
        // Implementation here
    }
}
```

:::note
If you need the constant in test to avoid leaking it to the rest of the production code you can use the `VisibleForTesting` annotation.

```kotlin
@VisibleForTesting
const val DEFAULT_USER_ID = "guest"
```

:::

#### Using companion objects

Use companion object only when constants or utility functions need to be exposed externally. This provides a clear namespace and avoids naming collisions.

When to use companion objects:

- **Namespacing for external use**: When constants or utility functions must be accessed externally (e.g., public or internal).

> - **Intentional naming conflicts**: When multiple classes or entities in the same file share the same name for conceptually similar constants (e.g., EMPTY, DEFAULT).

Reviewer: You already kind of said this, don't repeat yourself. Either expand the above or only use a list.
